Lambda is one of AWS's most game‑changing offerings, and
it's taken the cloud industry by storm.
Nearly every cloud provider has introduced their own
similar offering after the release of Lambda.
So what exactly is Lambda?
Lambda provides function code execution as a service.
Sometimes this is called Function as a Service or serverless.
What it really boils down to is that you can give some code to
Lambda, and it will execute it with almost no configuration
required. Although you can provide configuration for any memory
requirements when running your code,
you don't have to manage or configure the servers running that code.
Lambda will automatically run your code on as many servers as required,
scaling up and down as needed.
But the best part about all of this is that you only pay for what you use.
Specifically, you're only paying when your code is running.
Lambda bills you by the number of requests and per 100
ms that your code was executing.
This means you no longer pay for idling servers,
idling load balancers, or any other infrastructure that isn't being used.
Lambda could provide your application or company with significant
cost savings if you have infrequent activity.
The fundamental structure in Lambda is the function.
A function is a bundle of code with a specified execution entry point.
Each Lambda function is configured with a platform, such as Node,
Python, Go, or other languages and invocation targets, such as API Gateway,
CloudWatch, or CloudFront. There are some additional
configuration options, such as the execution timeout,
the memory requirements, and the IAM role that Lambda should execute
with. So let's take a look at a quick pricing example for Lambda. The
AWS free tier for Lambda gives you 1 million requests per month for free
and 400,000 GB seconds per month for free. Gigabyte seconds just means
seconds per gigabyte and refers to the memory requirements for your
Lambda function.
More memory required means less seconds for free
each month. After the free tier,
here's the pricing, 20 cents per million requests and around
18 cents per 24 hours of 128MB execution.
So with those numbers,
let's say you have a function that you run about 4 million times a day, and it
takes 2 seconds on average to execute. Your bill per day would be 80 cents for
the requests and $16.64 for the execution time.
This pricing includes all the load balancing, scaling, and
high availability you expect from AWS.
Honestly,
I don't think this is all that expensive compared to what you'd have to
pay to stand up in AWS to support that kind of load.
Although Lambda is great for high‑availability tasks,
I've also found it really useful for very simple, irregular tasks like
nightly ETL kickoffs and notification‑type functions.
It's so much easier to create a Lambda function than it is to stand up an EC2 instance and all the stuff that entails.